# Nginx WebDAV Prototype

This project prototypes an Nginx server deployed in a Podman container with a protected directory that supports read-write access using WebDAV, authenticated with OpenIDConnect bearer tokens signed by the CMS IAM.

Relevant docs:
- lua-nginx-module https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module
- lua-resty-openidc https://github.com/zmartzone/lua-resty-openidc

## Installation instructions

A docker image is available:
```sh
docker pull ghcr.io/hepcdn/nginx-webdav:latest
```
The image expects the main data directory to be bind-mounted at `/var/www/webdav`.
You will need to bind-mount `/etc/grid-security/` or some subset of it as well, to
provide the GRID certificate trust network.

The container is configurable via several environment variables:
- `SERVER_NAME` (default: `localhost`)
- `USE_SSL` (true/false, default: false)
- `PORT` (default: `8080`)
- `SERVER_ADDRESS` (default autogenerated from the above three, but may need to be overriden when behind a reverse proxy. Must have trailing slash)
- `SSL_HOST_CERT` (default: `/etc/grid-security/hostcert.pem`)
- `SSL_HOST_KEY` (default: `/etc/grid-security/hostkey.pem`)
- `SSL_CERT_DIR` (default: `/etc/grid-security/certificates`)
- `DEBUG` (true/false, default: false)

See `nginx/docker-entrypoint.sh` for further details.

You can also bind-mount a json configuration file at `/etc/nginx/lua/config.json` 
to set additional configuration options, including secrets needed to join a cluster:
```json
{
   "seed_peers": "https://cms-hepcdn.web.cern.ch/",
   "openidc_client_id": "my_client_id",
   "openidc_client_secret": "my_client_secret",
   "public_client_id": "my_public_client_id"
}
```
You can get an `openidc_client_id` by going to the CMS IAM self-service
[client registration page](https://cms-auth.cern.ch/dashboard#!/home/newClient).
The client will only need two scopes: `hepcdn.access` (create a custom scope) and `storage.read:/`.
You can view the generated client secret in the "Credentials" tab. Make sure to enable
`client_credentials` in the "Grant types" tab. For the frontend dashboard, we recommend
setting up a second public client with the scopes `openid profile storage.read:/ hepcdn.view`.
This allows authenticated users to view the cluster topology and access files via a web dashboard.

The full list of json configuration settings can be seen in `nginx/lua/config.lua`


## Development Instructions

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Navigate to the project directory.
3. Build and run the Podman containers using the following command:

```sh
podman build -t nginx-webdav -f nginx/nginx.dockerfile ./nginx

mkdir data
echo 'Hello, world!' > data/hello.txt

podman run -d -p 8080:8080 \
   -v ./nginx/conf.d:/etc/nginx/conf.d:Z \
   -v ./nginx/lua:/etc/nginx/lua:Z \
   -v ./data:/var/www/webdav:Z \
   -v ./nginx/html:/usr/local/openresty/nginx/html:Z \
   -e DEBUG=true \
   nginx-webdav
```

You can reload the configuration with `podman exec <name> nginx -s reload`

### Testing

You can run a suite of tests if you have podman and a python virtual environment set up with:

```bash
pip install -r tests/requirements.txt
pytest
```

## Usage examples

For usage with CMS auth, first, get a valid token, e.g. with [oidc-agent](https://wlcg-authz-wg.github.io/wlcg-authz-docs/token-based-authorization/oidc-agent/). Set it's value to the `$BEARER_TOKEN` environment variable, e.g. with `export BEARER_TOKEN=$(oidc-token tokenname)`. You can set up local tokens with the following:

```sh
dnf install oidc-agent
eval `oidc-agent` # runs the oidc agent in the background and sets some variables
oidc-gen cms
```
At this point, oidc-gen will ask some questions, choose `https://cms-auth.cern.ch/` as the issuer, and request `openid profile offline_access address storage.read:/` as the scopes. This will write an (encrypted) file to your home directory with the refresh token that can be used in the future.

From here, if you want a token in the future you can run:
```sh
eval `oidc-agent`
export BEARER_TOKEN=$(oidc-token cms)
```
to update the BEARER_TOKEN environment variable with your token. Note that this token is short-lived, so you may periodically need to reset the `BEARER_TOKEN` variable.


### Read a file

```sh
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $BEARER_TOKEN" http://localhost:8080/webdav/hello.txt
```

### Write a file

```sh
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $BEARER_TOKEN" -T README.md http://localhost:8080/webdav/
```

### Third-party copy

```sh
curl -H "TransferHeaderAuthorization: Bearer $BEARER_TOKEN" \
   -H "Authorization: Bearer $BEARER_TOKEN" \
   -H 'Source: https://cmsdcadisk.fnal.gov:2880/dcache/uscmsdisk/store/test/loadtest/source/T1_US_FNAL_Disk/urandom.270MB.file0000' \
   -X 'COPY' http://localhost:8080/webdav/urandom.270MB.file0000
```
